
# ups_to_sentdex

PLEASE NOTE: 
The following copyright notification is to/for Harrison Kinsley/sentdex, which will also be available under the project licenses along with the MIT license: (c) Harrison Kinsley/sentdex .  

The majority or pretty much all of this material was obtained by following along with the tutorials on https://pythonprogramming.net/ ; the youtube videos at https://www.youtube.com/user/sentdex ; and/or reviewing the actual sentdex website at http://sentdex.com/ .  The notes are either taken word for word from the tutorials or paraphrased, with some extras added in here and there by myself. 

This is essentially an attempt to recreate or somewhat follow various sentdex tutorials available at www.pythonprogramming.net, while ensuring the code runs updated for period end 2018 through beginning 2019.  The code was recreated using the open-source version of Anaconda3, now updated for use with Python 3.6.7 on Windows 10. As soon as I am able to get my Linux distro up and running alongside Windows, I will also include examples and updates for Linux.  However, as mentioned above, this will be a while because I have many projects to upload in Windows. 

I am unable to upload most data sets directly to Github because of the size, but if the individual datasets are not available here, I will do my best to include detailed instructions on how to obtain the datasets.

Additionally, since various libraries/packages/modules/what-have-you are needed at various times and later may not be needed, please excuse any areas where best-practices may not be properly followed.  This includes, for instance, where packages may be listed among the imports towards the top of the file, eventhough they may not be used within the code below (this is usually because they were used in previous files).  


Now, the rest of this I have no idea if it should even be written or included, and I am sure it should not be in the readme.  Although, once again, its my first project so I figured I would provide a few, or a lot, of random information that you may or may not find useful.  At the very least, maybe it will be entertaining...

Almost a decade ago as of this writing (around April 5th, 2019), my short work in academia provided me with a solid foundation in mathematics, statistics, finance, and economics.  Since then, on and off during my free time, I have been practicing various methods to apply these skills.  These methods for application of course all deal with programming or perhaps mostly just coding/scripting at my level.  However, my experience was essentially non-existent, save one paper in graph theory where I pretty much just explained the code someone else wrote.  Not exactly the skills needed to analyze financial markets and compete with people fresh out of Ivy League schools programming since they were in but when it comes to actually applying the information I learned in undergrad, I would be lost without the tutorials from sentdex.  I highly recommend visiting his sites and viewing his lectures.  I will continue to update this github page, but please be patient as this is my first "project" and I have a very long way to go.  Any corrections/comments/complaints/etc. can be directed here or sent to me personally; my personal email is throughout and at the bottom of this doc.



WARNING: 
- Since the work was origianlly completed using Python 3.6.6 (now use assumes Python 3.6.7), I will need to go back and test everything to ensure compatability with Python 3.7.3; once this has been completed, this warning message will be removed.  This may take some time, as I have run into multiple issues attempting to quickly update to the new version of Anaconda, which seems to just have been released two days prior to this writing.  That being said, I have full faith that the issues were caused by me and not the Anaconda crue (haha), so I will take a deeper look after I get this initial project up and going.

I feel it is important to inform anyone that may come across this "project", that it is in NO way whatsoever an abriged version, nor a substitute for the original sentdex tutorials on which this is based.  It would be too much to even call this the cliff notes.  All I am providing is material I obtained while watching and studying tutorials by sentdex; very very little, if any, code had to be changed or updated, unlike my usual code replications from other sources.  Additionally, the notes are, for the most part, either paraphrased or taken directly from the tutorials.  Some comments might be my own, and if they seem incorrect or you do not agree with something, please contact me and I will admit fault or explain and attempt to teach the way I am viewing the matter.  A few breif words below shed some light on my qualifications (or lack thereof...); if you wish to dicuss specifics, simply email me at 'whcherry52@gmail.com', and refernce this project, github, or whatever will get through my spam filter while also catching my attention, in the subject.


Nearly a decade ago, I obtained a degree in Quantitative Finance with double minors in Mathematics and Economics from the University of Alabama, and knew that I had to attend grad school for my hard work during undergrad to be worthwile.  Of course, I had other plans and knew I could go to grad school anytime.  I do not make excuses, but a number of circumstances eventually lead to me losing my passion for financial markets, trading, data analysis, proving others wrong and myself right, and of course the competitive spirit which pushed me to find ways to win at most everything I attempted.  This had propelled me to fight through the numerous graduate level classes as an undergrad just a short time ago.  My opinion during and after college was that I should be taking all computer science, math, and statistics classes, since the finance side was so simple anyone could learn it.  Sut
  That being said, I am by NO means an expert (far from it) and as time goes by I realize more and more what a poor decision it was to "take a break" in the Florida Keys after finishing my undergrad.  Instead of starting the Masters program in Applied Economics, where I had already been accepted without even taking the GMAT or GRE.  This program came with a Data Mining Certificate from the SAS Institute and only took one year to complete - although I will say, increadible fishing aside, I would not trade spending that time with my friends back then for a spot on the desk of Renaissance Technologies' Medallion Fund today.  
My point here is not to talk about what could have been or tell kids not to have fun, one purpose is that I simply would like to stress once again that I am not the brains behind this operation.  I am only providing the code that worked for me and the notes I thought were important.  As already mentioned, very little code had to be changed or updated, and I felt most topics were covered in solid detail, especially with the extra references sentdex provides.  The additions or personal comments are not notated or distinguished in any way, so if you need to know simply contact me via email listed throughout this page, and I will try to answer any question or separate the tutorial info from my personal additional info.  
If anyone is actually still reading, taking the last sentence a step further, feel free to contact me anytime with any questions about anything, and I will do my best to answer as soon as possible, or point you in the right direction.  However, please do keep in mind that this should only be used as a supplement to wonderful work done by sentdex and only if needed.  I hope this helps someone and please let me know what you think, what you hate, or what needs improvement, no matter how brutal the truth may be.  And yes, I know I should shut up and keep these kind of stories/comments for blogs or some social media terribleness.  Instead of blowing up people's facebook pages with the incredibly lengthy and drawn out whatever the last few paragraphs would be called, I decided to leave my rant where I knew people would probably never read it.  And on the off chance they do, well then probability tells me those reading it are exactly the knowledge-curious, pragmatic, real-passion-for-their-interests (not just the money), audience I have always wanted to find.  Woah! Lol, that was way too long and for sure not in the right spot, but ummmm. Yeah remember, do NOT take this as a quick fly-through sentdex course, Harrison is the real-deal and I beg you to listen to everything he says until you understand it. 



